Add Sourcify FAQ post to the blog (#79)
ethereum/solidity-blog: _posts/2020-06-23-sourcify-faq.md

---
layout: post
published: true
title:  "All you need to know about Sourcify"

> date:   2020-06-23

Reviewer: needs update and file needs renaming

Author: Will do.

author: Franziska Heintel
category: Explainers
---

Welcome to Sourcify's first short FAQ! If your questions around source verification haven't been answered after reading 

> this post, please feel free to drop by the [Sourcify Gitter channel](https://gitter.im/ethereum/source-verify) and ask us 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
this post, please feel free to drop by the [Sourcify Gitter channel](https://gitter.im/ethereum/sourcify) and ask us 
```

any question there. Also stay tuned on more turorials and developer focused content to follow here and on the [Remix blog](https://medium.com/remix-ide)!

## Source Verification

### What is source verification?

> In a software development context, the term source verification describes the process of verifying the legitimacy of code 

Reviewer: "legitimacy" sounds a bit weird to me

Author: What would you suggest?

Reviewer 2: truthfulness? validity?

Reviewer: I would actually say that this is not a term that is used in software development in general, but only in our blockchain context. So maybe we could remove the generic first sentence and start with the "special" case?

Author: That works for me. Deleted the first sentence.

before interacting with it. Solidity contract source code can be verified by checking whether the on-chain deployed code 

> is matching with published source code files. In order to allow for source verification, the code owners need to publish 
> the source and metadata files, thus enabling other developers to verify that the deployed bytecode is an exact match to the 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
is matching with published source code files. In order to allow for source verification, 
the source and metadata files need to be published, thus enabling developers to verify that the deployed bytecode is an exact match to the 
```

> published files. By doing so, it can be verified that the contract code is exactly the same as when it was deployed on 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
published files. By doing so, it can be verified that the contract code is exactly the same as when it was deployed on the
```

blockchain and has not been adjusted or tampered with before deploying it.

### Why is source verification important?

> Without open source contracts it's hard to tell what the application you are using will actually be doing. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Without open source contracts it is hard to tell what the application you are using will actually be doing. 
```

the ABI and the NatSpec documentation. The metadata file also contains IPFS and SWARM hashes of the source code, which allows 
to retrieve them if they are available.

Metadata files can also contain literal sources, which means that the acutal code of the contract is present in the metadata 
file's source section. Literal sources will be covered by the Sourcify verification [in future](https://github.com/ethereum/sourcify/issues/187), too.

### What is NatSpec?

[NatSpec](https://solidity.readthedocs.io/en/latest/natspec-format.html) is short for Ethereum Natural Language Specification 
Format. Solidity contracts can use NatSpec comments to provide rich documentation for functions, return variables and more. 
The comments are categorized by developer-focused and end-user-focused messages. The end-user-focused messages can be crucial 
to users since they describe what the contract interaction will do in easy language. It is highly recommended to fully 
annotate Solidity contracts using NatSpec for all public interfaces. 

NatSpec comments can be displayed to the user at the time of interaction, e.g. by being promted in the wallet interface 

> before signing a transaction.

Reviewer: Or as a comment in a list of past transactions

Author: Good point, I'll add it!

## Sourcify

### What is Sourcify?

Sourcify is an initiative which aims to make interacting with smart contracts on the blockchain safer and more transparent 
for users. 

To achieve this goal, Sourcify supports several efforts to foster adoption of open-source source verification, metadata files 
and NatSpec comments.

At its core, Sourcify currently maintains
- an [interface](https://verification.komputing.org/) that helps developers to verify metadata and contract source code.
- a [contract repository](https://contractrepo.komputing.org/) of all verified contracts.

> - a [monitoring & verifier service](https://github.com/ethereum/sourcify) that checks for new blocks on Ethereum blockchains 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- a [monitoring & verifier service](https://github.com/ethereum/sourcify) that checks for new contracts on Ethereum blockchains 
```

(mainnet and testnets) and tries to verify them automatically.

Besides the technical infrastructure, Sourcify is also a collective movement to bring transparency and awareness to the space. 
We try to educate and build bridges between development tools, wallets, interfaces and other components which all play an 
important role in demystifying interaction with smart contracts for the end user and hence making blockchain interactions safer.

> 

Reviewer: Maybe stress here that sourcify only provides the base layer where other tools can build on top?

Maybe also stress that the main purpose is to keep metadata and sources available via ipfs and swarm so that the links in the bytecode do not turn into dead links.

Author: Will add your points.

### How does the Sourcify monitoring & verifier service work?

The monitoring and verifier component...

* listens for new blocks on blockchains and fetches transactions from them.
* checks to see if their metadata and source code is published on IPFS or Swarm.
* recompiles the code.
* checks that it is the same as the deployed code.
* permanently stores the source code, ABI and other metadata on IPFS.

### How is the Sourcify verifier different to verifying my contracts on EtherScan?

Before we dive into the differences: EtherScan is doing invaluable work for the ecosystem with their 
[contract verficiation](https://etherscan.io/verifyContract) service, which we are very grateful for!

> However, there are some minor problems with the current setup in the EtherScan verification: EtherScan "flattens" the code 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
However, there are some minor problems with the current setup in the EtherScan verification: EtherScan often "flattens" the code 
```

> which makes it impossible to access the metadata. You have to trust EtherScan with the accuracy of the validation, 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
which makes it impossible to verify the metadata. You have to trust EtherScan with the accuracy of the validation, 
```

Reviewer: I don't think we should phrase it like that. Not even etherscan can recompile it to the last byte. We have to trust whoever uploaded the source code that this is the original source code with the correct natspec comments and variable names.

Author: Okay, I'll rephrase this accordingly.
